
Chemistry 51 Elementary Inorganic Chemistry
Fall 2026 – Butte-Glenn CommunityCollege
Instructor Information
Devin McBain(call meMs. McBain)
Contact Information: mcbainde@butte.edu or Canvas inbox
Campus phone: 530-897-7628 (please do NOT call me, please use email)
*Note*: I cannot be reached atanyother campus email address.
On weekdays, I will respond within 24 hours between 8am-5pm.On weekends, I will respond within 48 hours.
Office Hours: 
Tuesdays12:30-3:50pm in SCI 228(main campus)Wednesdays 12:30-1:15pm in SCI 228(main campus)
Course Information:
Meeting Times and Locations
Ctrl #
Type of Meeting
Day & Time
Campus
Room
Instructor
6875
Lecture
Mon & Weds 8-9:15am
Main
SCI 212
D. McBain
6875
Lab & Recitation
Mon & Weds 9:30am-12:20pm
Main
SCI 212
D. McBain
*Note*: All class meetings are in person. Internet accessis required to complete homework and to communicate with the professor.
*Note*: Some lectures may go longer or shorter, and some labs may be shorter or longer.We will meet 8am-12:20pm MW with a 15-minute breakbetween lecture and lab.
Catalog Description
This is a survey course in the principles of inorganic chemistry, including atomic theory and periodic properties, nuclear chemistry, electronic structure, chemical bonding, stoichiometry, gas behavior, solution chemistry, kinetics and equilibrium, acids and bases, oxidation and reduction, and elementary thermodynamics. It is recommended for allied health or applied science majors. Graded only. (C-ID CHEM 101). 
Prerequisite:Beginning Algebra or equivalent
Recommended Prep: Reading Level IV; English Level IV
Transfer Status: CSU/UC
Unit(s): 5.00
Class Meeting
Contact Hours
Out of Class Hours
Total Hours
Units
Lecture
51.00
102.00
153.00
3.00
Lab
102.00
0.00
102.00
2.00
Total
153.00
102.00
255.00
5.00
Note: It is expected that you willspend about 9 hours per week – or1-2 hours per day–outside of classto study and practice this content.
Goals and Objectives
Upon successful completion of this course, the student will be able to:
demonstrate ability to perform calculations associated with chemistry using appropriate units and precision; this includes calculations required for properties of matter, heat transfer, chemical reactions (includes theoretical yield), equilibrium, gas/liquid/solid phase changes, solution concentrations/dilutions, etc.
explain, analyze or predict physical and chemical properties of matter in terms of microscopic structure and vice versa; this includes qualitative and quantitative aspects of atomic structure, ionic and molecular compounds and bonding, chemical reactions, equilibrium, gas/liquid/solid/solution properties, acid/base behavior, etc.
communicate using appropriate chemistry terms, symbols and conventions; this includes naming and writing chemical formulas for elements, compounds, and ions; chemical equations; units, etc.
Required Materials
Student Access Code for Pearson’s MyLab and Mastering Chemistry homework
Textbook: McMurry, Ballantine, Hoeger, Peterson, “Fundamentals of General, Organic, and Biological Chemistry”, 8th edition, Pearson, ISBN: 978-0134015187
Ways to buy these first two items:
Order thetext (buy or rent) from the bookstore or any other vendorBuy access to Mastering Chemistry through the bookstore or directly through the link in the navigation bar in canvas
Buy 12 or 24 months of access to Mastering Chemistry + eText through the bookstore,MasteringChemistry directly, or any other vendors (This may bea good optionif following CHEm 51 with CHEM 52)
Buy 18 weeks of access to Mastering Chemistry + eText through Mastering Chemistry
White Lab Coat
Chemistry laboratory safety goggles (indirectly vented)
Scientific calculator
CHEM 51 Laboratory Manual, Butte College Department of Physical Sciences, Fall Semester 2026[Provided at no cost at first lab meeting]
Recommended Materials
Pencil
Pen (black or blue)
Highlighter
Optional Text/Video
Khan Academy – Free online videos/articles
Course Requirements
Add Policy
Any students wishing to add the class during the first two weeks of classmust:
Be on the waitlist, and
Be present at class meetings.
In the first week, if an enrolled studentis not present within the first 15 minutes of any lecture, lab, or activity, they will be dropped.
The dropped student’s spot in class will be given toany waitlisters present, in order of the waitlist.
First 2 Weeks’Participation& Drop Policy
For the first two weeks, I will log your participation via “Participation” (see below) andyour submission of labs,activities, and homework.
Due to the many students trying to add this class after school starts,I will drop you at the end ofthese first two weeks if youmiss a week’s worth of lecture participation andlabs/activities/homework. This includesmissing acalendar week,missingtwo full days over separate weeks,missingfour nonconsecutive class periods’ worth of participation + assignments, and any other combinations that amount tomissingthis amount of class time.
If you cannot participatefor a long stretch of time during the first two weeks,please contact me as soon as possible to tell me you still want the course and when you intend to return.
During the semester, you must maintain participationand assignmentsto keep yourgrade in the course.After two weeks of little to no participation, you will earn a failing grade.If you would rather this be a drop, youmust contact me.
After the50% (or so) point in the semester, I will betotallyunable to drop students.After two weeks of little to no participation, you will earn a failing grade.If you have a serious and compelling reason to drop instead of fail, you will have to contact Admissions & Records.
The Laboratory
Laboratory work is a fundamental part of chemistry. Always read the laboratory procedure and any additional materials before coming to lab. Make sure that you are familiar with the procedure and safety precautions so that you are prepared for the experiment.
Punctuality is important.Therefore,if you show up more than 5 minutes late, you may not be allowed to conduct the experiment and musttry tomake it up in a different lab section.
You must attendthelaboratory experiment/activity session in order to turn in the lab report/activity assignment for that day.
Hint: when you are reading through the lab, ask yourself where might mistakes or errors occur.
Pre-Lab/ Pre-ActivityPreparation
To ensure you have read the lab/activity and are prepared to engage fully with the in-person work, youwill completeapre-lab quiz in the first 5-10 minutes of the lab period.The only material you may have on your table for the pre-lab quiz is a3”× 5” indexcardwith handwritten notes, and your calculator.
Your manual includes an examplepre-lab assignment for you to practice the concepts and think about the hazardsin the lab or activity.
Experiments, Activities, and Reports
After the experiment is completed, experiment reports will be due at the end of the lab session before you leave for the day.
You must perform the experiment in order to turn in this assignment. Experiment reports are worth 10 points each.
Missing 4labs or activity sessions results in automatic failure of the course.
RecitationActivities
Recitation activities are designed to allow the class to work on topics that are amenable to a discussion-and exercise format and to spend extra time on areas that might be giving class members difficulty.
You will do an exercise (problems based on the presentation) that you will turn in before you leave the lab.  Activities/ exercises are worth 10 points each.
Missing 4 labs or activity sessions results in automatic failure of the course.
Lab SafetyAgreement
There will be a lab safety exercise that will test for safety related concepts and techniques in the lab. This exercise iseffectively your contractof safe lab participation, and it isrequired to demonstrate your knowledge of lab safety.
If you do not complete it by the end of the third week of class, you will not be allowed to do any more experiments until it is turned in (note: if you turn it in late, you will not earn any points, but you will still be given credit for taking it and will be allowed to perform experiments).
Flexibility
I understand that life happens, and sometimes things that are higher priority than an assignment come up. Please don’t stress over it. Take care of yourselves and your families.That said – pleasecommunicate with meby emailif a need for flexibility arises.
	Late Work
Unfortunately, latelab and activityreports are not accepted. Experiment reports and activity reports are due before you leave class that day.
Quizzesand pop quizzesmust be turned in when“time” is called. Anylatequizzes(thosecollected after that point)will be given a 0.
Late homeworkisaccepted latewith a penalty of 5% for each calendar day they are late, up to a maximum of 50% penalty. 
Make-up Policies
Due to space and time restrictions, there are no dedicated make-up labs available. If you know that you are going to miss an experiment, please contactMs. McBainas soon as possible to schedule a time topossiblymake up the experiment or activity. This may not always be possible due to lab space restrictions.If a make-up labor activityis possible, you may have one make-uplab or make-up activity per semester.
If you miss a major quiz, please contact Ms. McBain no later than 24 hours after the missed quiz toarrange to make it up in her office hours.If you fail to contact me during that window, I will have to give you a zero for that quiz.You may make up one major quiz.
Pop quizzes may not be made up.
“Forgiveness”
To offset the possibility that you are unable to make up a lab, activity, or quiz,I drop the following grades from your final overall grade:
2 lowest lab or activities
4lowestparticipation or pop quizzes
1 lowesthomework
1 lowestquiz
The final exam will not be dropped.
Assigned Reading
Quizzes, homework, activities, and the final exam will cover material in the textbook and material covered in lecture.
There is not enough lecture time to cover every detail of every topic in the course. Therefore, you are expected to read all textbook chapters and sections according to the schedules listed in this syllabus.
Hint:I recommend reading theassigned sections before coming to each lecture.This will facilitate your understanding of the material presented in class.
Bonus hint:I recommend taking reading notes on the sections as you read. In this way, lecture notes will be your second chance to write information about the topic.
We will not cover every section of every chapter in the assigned reading; however, you will still be expected to learnthese sections. Please follow the schedule listed in the syllabus.
Participation
Participation points will be earned at each meeting for being an active participant inpartner, group, and class-wide discussions, active learning exercises, or games.
There may be frequent “mini” quizzes that will count toward participation.
I understand that not all of us are extroverted; however, your professional futures depend on your ability tocommunicate with your future colleagues. Therefore, all group members need to participate, and all group members need to be included and given a chance to speak.
If anyone is seen disengaging from a group activity, they may receive a zero for participation in that activity. If it becomes a problem, I reserve the right to assign zeros to thegroup of which the nonparticipant is a member. (This does not apply to group members physically absent.)
I will drop your four lowest participation grades.
Homework Assignments
Homework is administered through Mastering Chemistry.
You will need to purchase access to this resource before you can complete any assignments.
To use,you will need internet access and one of the following:
P.C.: Windows 7, 8, 9, 10, or 11
Mac:OS 10.9, 10.10, or 10.11
Mobile devices: you will need Android or iOS.
Browser requirements vary. Complete details can be found at Pearson Student Support.
Homework is the key to your success in this class. It’s intended to motivate you topractice problemsolving strategies and to help you prepare for the exams.
One homework assignment will be dueat the end of the weekfollowing the assigned reading, Sunday at 11:59:00pm. (Not 11:59:59pm)
Grading policy will generally consist of the following, though I reserve the right to adjust policy as necessary:
You earn points bycorrectlyanswering questions.
You will get a limited number of attempts to answer each question (typically 6).
You will earn a little more credit if you correctly answer a question without opening a hint.
Problems completed before the deadlineare worth full credit (slight penalty for opening a hint).
For any problemscompletedafter the deadline, your scoreswill be reduced by 5% for every day late, up to a maximum penalty of 50%per late question.Thus, it is better to complete all of a homework assignment late than to not complete it at all.
There are also 1-4 “Dynamic Study Modules” on Mastering Chemistry assigned each week.
These give you extra practice necessary for confidence on quizzes and exams. Thus, I strongly recommend doing as many of these as possible in your study schedule.
Each is worth 0.5 pts extra credit if completed by Sunday at 11:59:00 pm.
Dynamic Study Modules are locked after this deadline. Late submissions aren’t possible.
Quizzes –At least Once Weekly
The class meeting after homework is due for a chapter,aquiz will take place in person at the beginning ofone of our twolectureperiods (except for finals week). These are intended to encourage you to participate in lecture, take good notes,review notes between lectures,and complete thehomework.
The quizzes will be completed individually, andtheymay consist of 1-5 questions.Most questions are free response, but some will be true/false or multiple choice.
Lecture quizzes are closed-note.
Quizzes may coveronly the recent chaptermaterial, or material from all previous chapters.
Missed quizzes must be made up as soon as possible, preferably before the next class period but no later than by 2 class periods later.
Your lowest quiz score will be dropped. 
Additional mini pop quizzes may be administered as “participation” to further encourage you to attend and to keep up with content. These quizzes will also be completed individually. These may not be made up.
Exams
There will be only one exam in this class and that is the final exam at the end of the semester. The final examination will be comprehensive and is intended to measure the student’s overall grasp of the concepts and principles that have been presented throughout the course in both the laboratory and the classroom. 
The final exam is cumulative.You must take the final exam to earn a grade in the course.
This exam is closed-note.
A simple, scientific calculator may be used on the final exam; cellular phones are not allowed. Earphones are not allowed. Watches are not allowed.
Final exam make-ups are generally not allowed except inextreme circumstances.
Not taking the final exam results inautomatic failure of the course.
Substantive Feedback
Homework Assignments are dueonce per week on Mastering Chemistry. Standard system feedback will be given. If you would like additional substantive feedback on a problem or assignment, you may request it at my office hours.You are responsible for bringing the specific question(s) and what you submitted as your answerso that we can have a meaningful conversation about your work.
Substantivehandwritten feedbackwill beprovided on everymajorquiz.Quizzes will be graded and returned within two weeks of the quiz date, though frequently sooner.
Substantive handwritten feedbackmay beprovided on pop quizzes, labs, and activities as time allows.Pop quizzes, labs and activities will be graded and returned within two weeks of the assignmentdate, though frequently sooner.You may request a conversation about any feedback at my office hours. You are responsible for bringing the specific question(s) and what you submitted as your answerso that we can have a meaningful conversation about your work.
Re-Grade Policy
You must wait 24 hours after receiving the graded assignment to petition for a re-grade. You may petition for a re-grade no more than seven (7) days after receiving the assignment.
You may petition for a regradeby returning the assignment to me, along with a short written note (on a separate piece of paper) explaining why you believe you deserve more points on the assignment.
Important:Any assignment submitted for a regrade must be completely unmodified from how it was originally turned in. Do not write, erase, or otherwise modify any portion of the assignment itself. Doing so will be considered an attempt to cheat, resulting in disciplinary actions discussed in the section Academic Dishonesty.
Methods of Evaluation
Keeping Track of Your Grade
You may access your currentunadjustedgrade throughout the course in CanvasGrades.You may access this on your own at any time, with an Internet connection.
This grade willbe 100% raw with no lowest grades dropped, and will only be based on the points currently accumulated(in other words, each assignment type will not be summed and weighted according to the below).
Weighting and dropping-the-lowest will occur byfinals week, though possibly beforefinals weekif time allows.
Grading Policy
Your overall course grade will be determined based on the distribution and tentative grading scale below. I reserve the right to make any adjustments to this scale that I deem appropriate as the course progresses.
10% -Participation
15% - Homework
30% - Labs + Recitation Activities
30% - Major Quizzes
15% - Final Exam (150 pts)
You must receive a score of C (70.0%) or better in the laboratory+ recitationsection to pass the course.
You must also receive a score of C(70.0%) or better in the lecture section to pass the course.
Even if your total course grade sums to a passing grade, failure to pass either lecture or lab will result in a failing grade.
Letter grades will be assigned according to the scalebelow.Your grade will be based solely on the points you earn on thehomework, quizzes, labs, activities, and participation activities.I cannot adjust your final letter grade based on any other external factors.
Yourgrade will be determined to the first digit past the decimal – additional rounding will not be utilized.
Letter
Percentage
A
90.0-100%
B
80.0 - 89.9%
C
70.0 - 79.9%
D
60.0 - 69.9%
F
0 – 59.9%
Academic Dishonesty
Cheatingor plagiarismin any form will not be tolerated. This includes, but is not limited to:
using unauthorized materials during exams
turning in any work which you did not complete yourself
submitting identical or near-identicalwork as another student
reporting a correct or incorrect final answer that is not supported by the work shown
and modifying any assignment prior to requesting a regrade.
Students may discuss homework and lab report questions with one another, and Iencouraging exchanging ideas and suggestions with one another.That said,the final answers should beyour own work and/or inyour own words.
Online resources are helpful if they help us learn.Students may use online resources appropriately to enhance their understanding – such as by finding solutions to similar problems (note the key word here,similar).That said –copyinganswersfound online is no different from copying answers from a classmate.It undermines your learning efforts. This will result in zero credit and potential further disciplinary action. Do not submit an answer or explanation that involves concepts you haven’t learned, don’t understand, or rely on ideas not presented in our course.
When working with a partner in the lab, the data may be the same, but the interpretation of the data (graphs, calculations, etc.) must be your own. If there is deliberate copying(whether with or without the other student’s consent), this is considered a form of cheating and will be handled according to the policy below.Don’t put yourself in this situation or allow someone else to put you in that situation.
Uploading assignments/questions to any websites outside of Mastering Chemistry or Canvas – or copying assignments from any website or AI agent – will result in a zero for the assignments.
Students must work alone on exams.
If cheating is involved on anyquiz, thedropping of low or zero scorestoaccount fora missed/poorquizpolicydescribed earlierisvoid.Grade will be calculated raw.
Depending on the particulars of the occurrence, consequences of cheating may include receiving a zero on the assignment and being referred to the Vice President of Student Services.For more information, see Butte College’s Academic Policies and ProceduresAP 5521.
Artificial Intelligence Policy
Per Butte College’s AP 5521, one definition of plagiarism is:Using generative artificial intelligence to produce class work, take exams or quizzes, write papers, or otherwise generate academic work products and claiming them as your own independent work, when not authorized by the instructor.
I do not authorize you to useany form of artificial intelligence to produce any work worth points in this course. Doing so constitutesacademic dishonesty and will be subject to disciplinary action.
Class Conduct
All creaturesin CHEM 51 have a right to be treated with respect as a human being.I expect all to be respectful to each other and to me, as I will be respectful to you.
As college personneland your instructor, I am also deserving ofyour respect as an authority figure.Ihereby swear Iwill not speak to you in a hostile manner, and I expect you not to speak to me in a hostile manner.If you speak to me in a hostile way, you will be asked to leave andmake-ups will not be offeredfor the graded content you miss.This breach of student conduct (as described inAP5500) will be subject to Student Discipline Procedures as outlined inAP5520.
AP 5500Standards of Student Conduct:https://www.butte.edu/about/leadership/board-of-trustees/documents/policies-procedures/ap-5500-standards-of-student-conduct-dec-2024.pdf
AP 5520 Student Discipline Procedures:https://www.butte.edu/about/leadership/board-of-trustees/documents/policies-procedures/ap-5520-student-discipline-procedures.pdf
Lab etiquette:
Food, beverages, and gum are not permitted to be consumed in SCI 212 at any time, due to the risk of chemical exposure.(Just step outside into the hall to eat breakfast or drink water/coffee/tea.)
During lab experiments, all PPE must be worn at all times until all chemicals are cleaned up and stored away.
Running and horseplay are not permitted at any time in SCI 212.
Several other lab safety policies will be discussed at the first lab meeting
AsI am not permitted toknowinglyletyou risk harm to your body, I will ask you to leave if yourepeatedlyviolate these rules (whether in the same session or across sessions).
Other Course Related Items
If you are registered with DSPS and are eligible to receive lecture or quiz/exam accommodations, youmust contact mevia email one weekbeforethefirst quiz date for me to honor those needs and to schedule your quiz/exam appropriately.
For more information regarding the accessibility of technologies used in this class, please read theCanvas Accessibility Statement(https://community.instructure.com/en/kb/articles/662723-what-are-the-canvas-accessibility-standards)andPearson’sAccessibility Statement(https://www.pearson.com/en-us/legal-information/accessibility.html?srsltid=AfmBOornn_UFPviKwVbXkLkWf7aGHWENUFzdPToXdFM4_A2iKZr3PZ5z).
All e-mail communication for the course will be throughCanvas Inbox and/oryour Butte College e-mail address. You must check theseon a regular basis in order to keep up with important information, especially related to your attendance or updates to the course materials.
Canvas is a resource you will need to access course materials (grades,handouts, syllabus, etc.).Resources for computer access will beshared below.
Students with disabilities are responsible for identifying themselves as someone needing accommodation. They must present the instructor with documentation from the Disabled Student Programs and Services (DSPS) office and abide by procedural requirements established by the DSPS office and those agreed upon with the instructor.
This is a 5-unit class, which represents one-third of a full academic load. You will have nine hours a week in class, andyouare expected to spend roughly the same amount of time – about 1 to 2 hours a day – working outside of class each week.
It is impossible to cover every tidbit of the required material in lecture. That’s why the reading, homework problems and labs are critical. You are responsible for, and can be tested on, any topic found in the lecture, lab, reading, or problems. Your best guide: can you do the problems in the text, study guide, and on the practice exams without referring to answer keys or AI?
McBain’s Hints to Success in CHEM 51
Keep up! Falling behind will lead to real trouble, particularly since the concepts stack and the final exam in comprehensive.
Read the assigned readingbeforecoming to class. Take reading notes. Have questions ready about the reading if you don’t understand the material.
Try working on theexample problems in theLab and Activity intros before coming to class.
Participate in all lectures and activities. Don’t just watch – take notes and actively participate.Re-try practice problems from the lecture on your own and then try to summarize the notes from lecture in your own words.
DO the homework problemsand do them on time. These problems are specifically selected to help you learn the material, as well as test your understanding of the material and concepts. The more you practice, the better able you will be to answer a question in a time pressure situation such as a quiz or the final exam.
Try out chemistry tutoring at least once this semester to see what it’s like.
Come to my scheduled student help (aka “office”) hours regularly. If you are confused about something, ASK!
If you are confused about something during class, ASK!
Don’t study it. Learn it. I dislike the word study because you can “study” for 4 hours, but not learn a thing. Instead of trying to “study” the terms, concepts, and equations – try to focus on learning them. This will require good time management.
In order to learn, it can be helpful to figure out how you learn best:
Do you feel like you learn better from images or diagrams than from reading text?
Do you learn better from watching videos or short movies than from listening to something being read to you?
Resist the urge to simply memorize material; instead, strive to understand the reason behind everything. And knowing how you learn best (visual, audio, text, etc.) can help with fully understanding the reason behind something.
Work in small increments on a daily basis – read the chapter, work on practice problems, review your notes. Research suggests reviewing material within 24 hours significantly helps with retaining (learning) the material.
Don’t be afraid to ask questions – these can be an important part of the learning process.
Write an explanation for each chapter identifying all key concepts, equations, etc. as if you were trying to explain to your friend in class. This should help you organize the material in a way that will lead to better understanding.
Form or join a study group and meet on a regular basis – not just beforequizzes. Working through problems with othersand talking about your reasoningis agreatway to make sure you know your stuff. If you can clearly explain a concept to a friend, then you should be able to explain it to me on aquiz.
Studies show that studying with others is an excellent way to increase understanding.
Remember that chemistry is not a spectator sport – you have to immerse yourself into the game, learn all the rules, and actually play a few innings, putting forth your best effort, in order to win. This way you are sure to hit a home run (or make a goal, touchdown, or basket, whichever you prefer)!
Have fun and enjoy learning how to think like a scientist! Let’s be nerds together!
Other Resources Available To You
Technical Support
Canvas
Technical questions about Canvas can be directedto Canvas Support. Access Canvas Support through the Help icon in the Canvas Global Navigation menu.
Mastering Chemistry
Technical questions about Mastering Chemistry can be answeredin your Mastering Chemistry portal under Help.You canread their help articles,chat withtheir AI support24/7,and access live human support Mon-Fri6am-6pm.
Butte College IT Support
For technical supportgetting to Canvas, using campus internet, or using campus technologies, contact IT Support Services at(530) 895-2925
Technology Resources
Students have free access to the full suite of Microsoft Office applications to use on personally-owned technology. Your @student.butte.edu is your key for this free access to Microsoft Office.
Thereare computer labs on campus that you may use to accessinternet-based resources.
CAS (see below) has a computer lab, and they can also rent out a limited number of laptops during the semester.
The library can check out a limited number of laptops and wifi hotspotsto students for the semester.
Computers for Classrooms is also a great resource for low-cost refurbished computers and laptops.
Academic Support (TUTORING)
The Center for Academic Success (CAS) offers FREE academic support for all enrolled Butte College students: butte.edu/cas.You willbe enrolled in EDUC 310 at your first CAS visit to utilize these services.
Services include: 
DROP-IN TUTORING for Chemistry – No appointment needed (Schedules and locations available in CAS Services or EDUC 310 in Canvas).
ONLINE TUTORING (Schedules available in CAS Services and EDUC 310 in Canvas)
SUPPLEMENTAL INSTRUCTION (SI) for selected courses
STUDENT ATHLETE SUCCESS PROGRAM (SASP)
STUDY SPACE for individuals or groups 
DROP-IN COMPUTER USE for academic purposes
LAPTOP CHECK OUT for use in CAS 
SUCCESS COACHING with CAS Faculty
Student Services
There’s an incredible amount of support for studentsat theStudent Resourceswebsite (https://www.butte.edu/student-resources/), including:
Food & Housing support (including assistance with CalFRESH applications)
Resources for Student Parents
Health & Wellness
Library
Career Center
Counseling & Advising
DSPS
Accommodations and Special Circumstances
To view information about Butte College’s Non-Discrimination Policy and learn more about Academic Accommodations, seethe following:
AP 3400Non-Discrimination and Prohibition of Harrassment:https://www.butte.edu/about/leadership/board-of-trustees/documents/policies-procedures/ap-3400-nondiscrimination-and-prohibition-of-harassment.pdf
AP 5140 DSPS:https://www.butte.edu/about/leadership/board-of-trustees/documents/policies-procedures/ap-5140-disabled-student-programs-and-services.pdf
 
 
CHEM 51 Fall 2026 Course Schedule:
**All dates are tentative. I reserve the right to make schedule changes as needed.
**Changes to the schedule will be communicated via email, via Canvas announcement, and verbally in class.

schedule of lecture topics, homework assignments and lab experiments & activities for weeks 9 through 16 of the fall 2026 semester
 
 
.
 
 
 
.
 
 
.
 
